# What do you want?

## Introduction

4000 Weeks

## Text:  [[Ps 90#1|Ps 90:1-17]] 

A Prayer of **Moses** the man of God.

1 Lord, thou hast been our dwelling place in all generations.  

2 Before the mountains were brought forth, or ever thou hadst formed the earth and the world, even **from everlasting to everlasting**, ***thou art God.*** 

3 Thou **turnest man to destruction**; and sayest, ==Return==, ye children of men.  

4 For a thousand years in thy sight are but **as yesterday** when it is past, and **as a watch in the night.** 

5 Thou carriest them away as with a flood; they are **as a sleep**: in the morning they are **like grass** which groweth up.  

6 In the morning it flourisheth, and groweth up; in the evening it is cut down, and withereth.  

7 For we are consumed by thine anger, and by thy wrath are we troubled.  

8 Thou hast set our iniquities before thee, our secret sins in the light of thy countenance.  

9 For all our days are passed away in thy wrath: we spend our years as a tale that is told.  

10 The days of our years are threescore years and ten; and if by reason of strength they be fourscore years, yet is their strength labour and sorrow; for it is soon cut off, and we fly away.  

11 Who knoweth the power of thine anger? even according to thy fear, so is thy wrath.  

12 So ==teach== us to number our days, that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom.  

13 ==Return==, O LORD, how long? 

and let it ==repent== thee concerning thy servants.  

14 **O ==satisfy== us early with thy mercy;** that we may **rejoice** and **be glad** all our days.  

15 **==Make== us ==glad== according to the days wherein thou hast afflicted us,** and the years wherein we have seen evil.  

16 **Let thy work appear** unto thy servants, and **thy glory unto their children**.  

17 And **let the beauty of the LORD our God be upon us**: and **==establish== thou the work** of our hands upon us; yea, the work of our hands **==establish== thou it.** 

## Outline (Answers Why or How)

### Get a big view of God - vs.1-4

Did you notice the author heading: Moses! If anyone had a clear view of God and Man, it was him.

- **God is the eternal creator**
	- He is God from & to everlasting - vs.2
	- Time is completely different to God - vs.4

> Compared with eternity, even a long life is like yesterday when it is past or like the changing of the guards while we are sleeping (a “watch” was four hours) [^2]

[^2]: Wiersbe, Warren W. [_Be Exultant_](https://ref.ly/logosres/be-exult?ref=Bible.Ps90.3-12&off=1329&ctx=week+(2+Peter+3%3a8).+~Compared+with+eterni). 1st ed. Colorado Springs, CO: Cook Communications Ministries, 2004. Print. “Be” Commentary Series.

- **God is just - vs.3**
	- We were made to live forever with God
	- B/c of sin, man was turned out of the garden to face a life of labor in suffering, death, and dust
- **God is loving, he calls men to himself - vs.3**
	- Even in just judgement of God, he speaks to men
	- "Return, ye children of men" come back to me!
- **God is our home - vs.1**
	- For Israel, God was the one they dwelt with
	- Abraham, pilgrim, left his home to follow God
	- Where's home? Path of following God, ultimately the place of dwelling with God in eternity.

> In the midst of a changing world, living as we do in a “tabernacle” (2 Cor. 5:1–4), it is good to hear Moses say, “The eternal God _is thy_ refuge, And underneath _are_ the everlasting arms:” (Deut. 33:27, amp). [^1]

[^1]: Wiersbe, Warren W. [_Be Exultant_](https://ref.ly/logosres/be-exult?ref=Bible.Ps90.1-2&off=1824&ctx=ght+to+be+thankful.+~In+the+midst+of+a+ch). 1st ed. Colorado Springs, CO: Cook Communications Ministries, 2004. Print. “Be” Commentary Series.
### See the reality of our lives and humble yourself before God - vs.5-12

- Our lives are incredibly brief
	- A sleep - vs.5
	- As grass growing and dying - vs.5-6
	- As a story - vs.9
	- Perhaps 70-80 years, but even that is short - vs.10
- Our lives are thoroughly affected by the just consequences of sin
	- God carries away as a flood (unnerving power) - vs.5
	- Consumed by God's anger, wrath - vs.7
	- No place to hide, there is sowing and reaping - vs.8
	- Days passed away in God's wrath (consequences upon Israel in the wilderness)
	- God is fearsome, he is so great, so powerful, so holy, so just, have we even comprehended him?
- So what's left? → A Prayer

[The part of the show were Larry comes out and sings a silly song] → So go make a difference, do great things for God, hoorah.
### Find your all in the Lord - vs.12-17

- Ask God to teach you perspective on your days - vs.12
	- Numbering, counting our days → Wisdom
	- Their days were literally numbered, generation was dying in the wilderness, Moses was leading a funeral procession for that generation. (kind of like David)
	- Do you see why they needed God to teach them? 
	- What are we supposed to do now?!
	- [Battle with certainty *and* uncertainty]

> We number our years, not our days, but all of us have to live a day at a time, and we do not know how many days we have left. A successful life is composed of successful days that honor the Lord. [^3]

[^3]: Wiersbe, Warren W. [_Be Exultant_](https://ref.ly/logosres/be-exult?ref=Bible.Ps90.3-12&off=3461&ctx=.+12%3b+Deut.+32%3a29) 1st ed. Colorado Springs, CO: Cook Communications Ministries, 2004. Print. “Be” Commentary Series.

- Seek God in humility
	- God says return to me - vs.3
	- Moses says, return to us - vs.13
	- He asks God many times to repent, turn his plan
	- We've done wrong, we've sinned, but would you do something with us?
- Seek satisfaction, joy, and gladness in God - vs.14-15
	- Do hear Moses heart? 
	- Satisfy with your mercy
	- So we can be rejoice & be glad in these days of suffering
	- What makes the heart satisfied? 
	- It's not the gift, it's the giver [Joseph's dream]
- Seek the work that God will establish
	- The order & request is very important
	- Order (humility) - we are nothing, you are all, whatever work you have for us to do, show us that!
	- Request (you establish) - It's a request not of conquest, but dependence. Whatever it is, whatever you put in our hands, you establish it and we will follow you.
	- The durability of our work must come from the Lord

What wisdom does number our days teach us? Many things, but most of all that from beginning to end, God is our God, he is our dwelling place, it's all about him, his mercy, his goodness that satisfies, and his hand that establishes any thing that we might do for him.

## Conclusion (So What?)

Wiersbe's summary:
- We are travelers and God is our home
- We are learners and life is our school
- We are believers and the future is our friend

> closing prayer emphasizes God’s compassion and unfailing love, His desire to give us joy and satisfaction, even in the midst of life’s troubles, and His ability to make life count for eternity. When Jesus Christ is your Savior and Lord, the future is your friend.[^4]

[^4]: Wiersbe, Warren W. [_Be Exultant_](https://ref.ly/logosres/be-exult?ref=Bible.Ps90.13-17&off=484&ctx=he+difference.+This+~closing+prayer+empha). 1st ed. Colorado Springs, CO: Cook Communications Ministries, 2004. Print. “Be” Commentary Series.

> Life is brief, so Moses prayed, “Teach us.” Life is difficult, and he prayed, “Satisfy us.” His work at times seemed futile, so he prayed, “Establish the work of our hands.” God answered those prayers for Moses, and He will answer them for us.[^5]

[^5]: Wiersbe, Warren W. [_Be Exultant_](https://ref.ly/logosres/be-exult?ref=Bible.Ps90.13-17&off=3038&ctx=worship%2c+and+serve.%0a~Life+is+brief%2c+so+Mo). 1st ed. Colorado Springs, CO: Cook Communications Ministries, 2004. Print. “Be” Commentary Series.

- Where did Moses start? **With God**
- Where did Moses end? **With God**

- What does a short life do for us?
	- Certainly redeem the time (Eph 5:16)
	- We can run to the work
	- Most of all we must run to God
	- He is the one that establishes the work
- What do you want most of all? 
	- Do something for God?
	- Be with God?